See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/263591525
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting: Measures and methods
Article  in  Target International Journal of Translation Studies · March 2013
DOI: 10.1075/target.25.1.03see
CITATIONS
137 READS
5,563
1 author:
Kilian G. Seeber
University of Geneva
40 PUBLICATIONS   930 CITATIONS   
SEE PROFILE
!is is a contribution from Target 25:1 © 2013. John Benjamins Publishing Company
!is electronic "le may not be altered in any way. !e author(s) of this article is/are permitted to use this PDF "le to generate printed copies to be used by way of o#prints, for their personal use only. Permission is granted by the publishers to post this "le on a closed server which is accessible to members (students and sta#) only of the author’s/s’ institute, it is not permitted to post this PDF on the open internet. For any other use of this material prior written permission should be obtained from the publishers or through the Copyright Clearance Center (for USA: www.copyright.com). Please contact rights@benjamins.nl or consult our website: www.benjamins.com
Tables of Contents, abstracts and guidelines are available at www.benjamins.com
John Benjamins Publishing Company
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting
Measures and methods
Kilian G. Seeber University of Geneva, Switzerland
!e mental e"ort required to perform a simultaneous interpreting task or the cognitive load generated by it has attracted the interest of many a researcher in the #eld. To date, however, there is little agreement on the most suitable method to measure this phenomenon. In this contribution, I set out to discuss four of the most common methods of measuring cognitive load and the way in which they have been applied in interpreting research, providing examples for each and highlighting their respective advantages and disadvantages. !e main focus of the contribution will be on pupillometry, a psycho-physiological method I deem to be among the most promising approaches to objectively measure cognitive load during simultaneous interpreting in real time.
Keywords: simultaneous interpreting, cognitive load, mental e"ort, analytical methods, subjective methods, performance methods, psycho-physiological methods, methodology, pupillometry
!. Introduction
Among interpreting scholars, the list of those who consider simultaneous inter-preting a cognitively tasking activity (e.g., Gile 1995; Hyönä et al. 1995; Massaro and Shlesinger 1997; Moser-Mercer 1997; De Groot 2000) seems to extend beyond that of those who consider such statements as nothing but “primitives or clichés” (Setton 2003, 37). Indeed, Setton argues that concurrent sub-tasks during simulta-neous interpreting can be performed “comfortably if they are all sharing the same representation” (2001, 5). Over the years, the notion of cognitive load generated by the interpreting task, or the amount of cognitive e"ort necessary to perform it, has generated a substantial amount of interest and has been addressed by scholars from within and outside the paradigm who believe that such investigation might be very fruitful (de Groot 1997). !e amount of empirical evidence gathered to
Target $%:& ($'&(), !"–#$. )*+ &'.&',%/target.$%.&.'(see
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting !%
corroborate theories and claims about the amount of cognitive load generated by the task, however, would appear to be inversely proportional to the strength of the assertions put forward. As the following discussion will show, this imbalance may partially be explained by the di4culty of #nding an appropriate paradigm within which to test hypotheses, coupled with a methodology capable of identifying, iso-lating and measuring the phenomenon as directly as possible. !e purpose of this article is to provide an analysis of the potential and limitations of some of the most widely used methods for investigating cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting and the metrics (or measures) they employ, with a special focus on pupillometry.
$. Measuring cognitive load
!e multidimensional nature of cognitive load makes it di4cult to de#ne.1 On the one hand, this construct represents the load imposed on the performer by a particular task (Paas and Merrienboer 1993), on the other hand, it represents the perceived e"ort invested by a performer during the execution of that task (Yin et al. 2008). For the purpose of the present analysis, cognitive load will be de#ned as the amount of capacity the performance of a cognitive task occupies in an inher-ently capacity-limited system (Miller 1956). Paas et al. (2003) and Schultheis and Jameson (2004) describe four discrete categories of methods for the assessment of cognitive load, all with their respective advantages and disadvantages: analyti-cal methods, subjective methods, performance methods and psycho-physiological methods.
Analytical methods attempt to estimate cognitive load relying on subjective data, o5en elicited through expert opinion, and analytical data, o5en generated with mathematical models or task analysis (Paas et al. 2003). !e advantage of this approach is that the cross-tabulation of subjective and analytical data can take place at a purely theoretical level thus avoiding sometimes cumbersome empirical testing; its major shortcoming is that it relies exclusively on prior knowledge both about the task and about the subjects and is therefore unable to take into account individual performance di"erences.
Subjective methods use self-reported data as a means to quantify phenomena that are perceived as di4cult or impossible to assess objectively, such as cogni-tive load. Data are generated using introspection, as well as retrospective and concurrent verbalization, and are re6ected in metrics such as rating scales. !e advantage of these methods over analytical methods is that they involve task per-formers, who have been shown to be able to provide an appreciation of their per-ceived mental load (Paas et al. 2003). !eir drawback is a possible contamination of data by memory and consciousness e"ects, seeing that the response is usually
$& Kilian G. Seeber
time-delayed. With the exception of concurrent verbalization (i.e., think-aloud), self-rating and assessment takes place a5er the performance of the task.
Performance methods usually involve the simultaneous performance of a pri-mary task and a secondary task with the goal of identifying the extent to which the latter a"ects the former (Haapalainen et al. 2010). !e advantage of these methods is that they allow tasks to be studied without the need to de-compose them. !eir major drawback is that uncontrolled processes might confound the causal rela-tionship between the two tasks at hand.
Psycho-physiological methods, #nally, assess the physiological processes known to co-vary with changes in cognitive load. In doing so, they provide a more direct and, given that these physiological responses are not subject to voluntary control, more objective measure of cognitive load. !e drawback of these methods is their complexity; they can be invasive (to varying degrees) and therefore might interfere with the task itself.
What follows is an attempt to illustrate, by means of a few examples, how these methods have been used to qualify and quantify cognitive load phenomena in simultaneous interpreting.
$.! Cognitive load in interpreting research: Analytical methods
Among the best-known analytical approaches to conceiving of cognitive load in interpreting are Gile’s e"ort models (1995). !e underlying framework of this “conceptual framework” (Gile, 2008: 62) is similar to Kahneman’s (1973) single resource theory that postulates the existence of a single pool of #nite processing capacity to fuel all cognitive tasks. Summarizing more complex operations un-der the heading of four e"orts, i.e., listening and analysis, production, memory, and coordination, Gile proposes a simple architecture to describe the amount of e"ort invested in the simultaneous performance of these operations to get from the input “I” to the total amount of invested e"ort “T” (see Figure 1). !e appeal of this conceptual framework is its striking simplicity. Reducing the complex si-multaneous interpreting task to an uncomplicated mathematical formula (which, as the author points out, should not be understood as a simple arithmetic sum) is a noteworthy feat. One of the examples Gile provides illustrates the process-ing capacity demands involved in the simultaneous interpretation of the sentence given at the bottom of Figure 1. !e schematic convincingly illustrates how a lo-cal increase in information density (i.e., the section in italics) causes a knock-on e"ect eventually leading to load being exported to a subsequent processing stage. However, this model’s main strength, i.e., its ability to capture the complex task of simultaneous interpreting and provide a simple and concise account of its intrin-sic cognitive demands, constitutes a potential weakness for its application beyond
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting $!
the realm of teaching. It is possible that some of the parallel cognitive processes recruit the same resources. It is also possible, however, that some tasks involved in an online bilingual language processing task such as simultaneous interpreting are constrained by limitations going beyond those inherent to the three principal component tasks. Such limitations might only come to bear when the component tasks are combined into a more complex one. In other words, in terms of cogni-tive load, simultaneous interpreting might be more or less than the sum of its parts. It is conceivable that this incongruity cannot merely be accounted for by the coordination e"ort, which is assumed to be ever-present and thus not speci#cally represented in Gile’s model (see Figure 1).
The effort model
The effort model and a theoretical and schematic representation of the processing capacity involved
during SI. Adapted from Gile (1997)
SI= simultaneous interpreting
SI = L + P + M + C
I
L
P
M
T
TR = LR + MR + PR + CR
timet 7
t 6
t 5
t 4
t 3
t 2
t 1
t 0
L= listening and analysis effort P= production effort M= memory effort C= coordination effort TR= total capacity requirements LR= capacity requirements for L MR= capacity requirements for M PR= capacity requirements for P CR= capacity requirements for C
t0 [Ladies and Gentlemen] t2 [the International Association of Frozen Food Manufacturers] t3 [is happy to welcome so many of you in Paris]
Figure 1. Adaptation of Gile’s (1997) e"ort model
What is more, empirical #ndings do not lend unequivocal support to Kahneman’s (1973) single resource theory. On the contrary, they suggest that structurally similar tasks interfere more with each other than structurally dissimilar ones do (Wickens 2002). I attempted to address some of these limitations by introducing the Cognitive Load Model as a competing account to the E"ort Model (Seeber 2011). !e former is based on Wickens’ (1984, 2002) Multiple Resource !eory and assumes a #nite amount of task-speci#c processing capacity as well as a cer-tain amount of task-interference depending on the structural proximity of the tasks involved2 (see Figure 2).
!e strength of the Cognitive Load Model is its ability to illustrate cognitive load taking into account both the input and output — something the E"ort Model
$$ Kilian G. Seeber
seems to fall short of. As the maximum local load3 is intrinsically linked to the amount of parallel processing (and thus interference generated by di"erent tasks), as well as the amount of time for which elements need to be stored, the predictions of Gile’s E"ort Model appear somewhat arbitrary. !e Cognitive Load Model for the same sentence, for instance, illustrates one (of several) ways of interpreting the sentence that keeps cognitive load fairly constant, without presupposing any par-ticular background knowledge by the interpreter4 (the latter limitation is shared with Gile’s E"ort Model and is due to the nature of the measure used). !ese two examples of analytical measures of cognitive load illustrate the constraints inher-ent to an approach unable to take into account individual di"erences.
Input Output
Input
Output
Output
Cognitive Load Model - Symmetrical Structures (Example taken from Gile 1997)
Ladies
lag
1 1 1 1
1 1
1 1
1 1
Mesdames
auditory verbal input / auditory verbal output =.8
auditory verbal input / cognitive verbal output =.7
auditory verbal input / response verbal output =.4
cognitive verbal input / auditory verbal output =.7
cognitive verbal input / cognitive verbal output =.8
cognitive verbal input / response verbal output =.6
et Messieurs Internationale des de Surgelés se de vous si nombreux à Paris [ ]
Input
Output
S
P
C
R
I
and gentlemen the to Paris for this meetingyouofmanysowelcometohappyisManufacturersFoodof FrozenAssociationInternational
L’Association Producteurs accueillirrejouit
Figure 2. Seeber’s (2011) Cognitive Load Model for symmetrical structures (S = storage, P = perceptual auditory verbal processing, C = cognitive verbal processing, R = verbal response processing, I = interference)
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting $#
$.$ Cognitive load in interpreting research: Subjective methods
A review of the recent literature suggests that unlike analytical methods, subjec-tive methods do not seem to be widely used to assess cognitive load in interpreting research. !is might be attributable to two reasons. On the one hand, there appears to be little agreement on the reliability of self-reports of cognitive load. While some (e.g., Gopher and Braune 1984; Paas et al. 2003) found them to be relatively reliable, others (e.g., Mital and Govindaraju 1999) found evidence to the contrary. On the other hand, it is conceded that only concurrent verbalization can accurately re6ect the mental status of participants (Bernardini 2001), and that post-hoc verbalization a5er long tasks may lead to incomplete descriptions (Ericsson and Simon 1984) and distortions. !ese limitations prompted Shlesinger to conclude that “for all intents and purposes, TAPs, in the ordinary sense, are not a viable tool for us” (2000: 3). In a more comprehensive methodological discussion of verbal methods in inter-preting research, Ivanova (2000) suggests using transcripts of interpreters’ output as retrieval cues during post-hoc verbalizations. !is approach encourages partici-pants to recall rather than to reconstruct cognitive processes, but does not solve the problem of a close interaction between participant and experimenter, which is argued to contaminate data (Bernardini 2001). Lamberger-Felber, who compares 12 interpreters’ subjective assessment of source-text di4culty using Pöchhacker’s (1994) discourse parameters, reports “high scoring variability in almost all indi-vidual parameters investigated” (Lamberger-Felber 2001: 47). While these #ndings most likely indicate the need for further validation of Pöchhacker’s taxonomy for the purpose of assessing the di4culty of source materials in simultaneous interpret-ing, they might also simply serve as a reminder to use caution when subjectively estimating the amount of load likely to be generated by a particular task.
Finally, subjectivity also makes its way into scienti#c inquiry through the backdoor of material selection for experimental purposes. Scholars select and match source materials for experiments on simultaneous interpreting and related tasks (i.e., shadowing, sight translation, simultaneous interpreting with text, etc.) based on a subjective assessment of di4culty. Readers are told, e.g., that the se-lected materials are “of roughly equal di4culty” (Moser-Mercer et al. 2000, 115) and thus le5 to trust the (interpreter-)researchers in their subjective assessment.
It would appear, then, that subjective methods might not provide the neces-sary objectivity to reliably assess cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting.
$.# Cognitive load in interpreting research: Performance methods
Performance measures have a long tradition in psychology and made their way into interpreting research when the #rst psychologists started showing interest in
$' Kilian G. Seeber
this novel object of study. In line with the tradition at the time, the experimental analyses of the task focused on performance speed and performance accuracy. Oléron and Nanpon (1965), for example, quanti#ed the time lag (i.e., EVS or Ear to Voice Span) between simultaneous interpreters and speakers, whereas Barik (1969) quanti#ed errors and omissions in simultaneous interpreting.
It would appear that performance measures have lost little of their appeal as they are still frequently used measures in the experimental study of simultaneous interpreting (e.g., Mazza 2000; Gile 2008; 2011; Tauchmanová 2011). Although contributing to the generation of a non-negligible amount of data, it is interest-ing to see that one of the principal challenges inherent to performance methods (identi#ed by Woodworth as early as 1899) has not o5en been addressed, let alone solved, in almost 50 years of experimental research on simultaneous interpret-ing: the trade-o" between speed and accuracy. It is generally believed that, when carried out quickly, tasks will su"er in terms of accuracy, and when carried out accurately, they will su"er in terms of speed. !e crux with simultaneous inter-preting is that unlike in psychological experiments entailing arguably simpler tasks (like giving a true-or-false response), where participants can be instructed and given a regulatory focus, researchers do not usually attempt to control inter-preters’ regulatory focus. !is means that the regulatory focus within one and the same interpreter might change from one performance to the next or even within one and the same performance. Furthermore, as simultaneous interpreting al-ready consists of simultaneously executed tasks (i.e., language comprehension and language production), the traditional approach of having a main task carried out simultaneously with a secondary task (Paas et al. 2003; Haapalainen et al. 2010) is not practicable. In the absence of a traditional secondary task paradigm, estab-lishing a causal relationship between performance speed or performance accuracy and cognitive load at any given point during the process becomes problematic. !is problem is best exempli#ed by Pym’s (2008) re-interpretation of Gile’s (1999) data where, using a purely theoretical approach, Pym convincingly illustrates how varying priorities among participants can be invoked as an equally plausible expla-nation of the observed phenomena.5
Seeing that the aforementioned performance methods to measure cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting allow competing (and potentially mutually ex-clusive) interpretations of the results, it would seem prudent to combine them with other, more objective measures.
$.' Cognitive load in interpreting research: Psycho-psychological methods
!e fourth approach used to measure cognitive load relates to psycho-physio-logical techniques, i.e., methods allowing the measurement of cardiac, hematic,
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting $(
electro-dermal, ocular, muscular and cerebral responses. Many of these tech-niques are continuous and allow for a moment-to-moment analysis of events, which is of crucial importance for language processing, not only because cognitive load is assumed to 6uctuate locally, but also because the individual operations inherent in language processing are performed very rapidly and can be measured in fractions of seconds (Mitchell 2004). Another advantage is that most physi-ological responses are controlled by the sympathetic nervous system, and as such, cannot be consciously in6uenced, but rather constitute an objective measure. !e main drawback of psycho-physiological measures is the di4culty of identifying and determining what is actually measured. Furthermore, several techniques are invasive, and many of them highly complex and expensive. In order to be consid-ered suitable for the measurement of cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting, any method must be evaluated against the following four requirements: noise-resistance6, non-invasiveness7, temporal resolution and a"ordability. Given these constraints, it is not surprising that to date only very few psycho-physiological measures have been applied to the study of simultaneous interpreting. Petsche et al. (1993), for example, used electroencephalography (EEG) to compare brain ac-tivation as modulated by directionality (from or into the native language) during shadowing and simultaneous interpreting tasks. In order to avoid artifacts, how-ever, both tasks had to be performed covertly (i.e., without articulation). Price et al. (1999) and Rinne et al. (2000) both used positron emission tomography (PET) to compare brain activation during translation and interpreting tasks. While Price et al. (1999) did not #nd any evidence for an increase in activation, Rinne et al. (2000) did. In both experiments, the method required the intravenous admin-istration of 15O-H20, a positron-emitting tracer, making it rather invasive. More recently, Hervais-Adelman et al. (2011) used functional magnetic resonance imag-ing (fMRI) and successfully identi#ed the neural substrates underlying the simul-taneous processing of two languages during simultaneous interpreting. Among the chief limitations of this method is its temporal resolution (in the range of 2 to 3 seconds), which makes it impossible to time lock certain cognitive load phenom-ena. Pupillometry, #nally, a method developed several decades prior to the advent of modern brain-imaging techniques, would appear to have better temporal reso-lution, be less invasive and more a"ordable than the aforementioned methods. To substantiate these claims the rest of the discussion will focus on this method and how it applies to the measurement of cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting.
$) Kilian G. Seeber
#. Pupillometry
#.! !e pupil
If we exclude the e"ect of drugs, which can cause constriction (as is the case with alcohol, opioids, and antipsychotics) or dilation (in the case of the central nervous system stimulants and hallucinogens), the pupil, broadly speaking, reacts to three kinds of stimuli: luminosity (Clarke et al. 2003), emotions (Stelmack and Mandelzys 1975) and cognitive activity (Kahneman et al. 1969). !ese three stimuli can cause the pupil size to vary from 1.5 mm in bright light to up to 8 to 9 mm in dim light (Andreassi 2000). In order to make sense of the pupillary reactions and, more spe-ci#cally, of the peak amplitude of the pupil, it is important to consider some of its fundamental physiological characteristics. First of all, pupil response can occur as quickly as 200 ms a5er stimulus presentation (Lowenstein and Loewenfeld 1962), although dilation as a response to cognitive load usually seems to begin a5er 300 to 500 ms (Beatty 1982 and Hoeks and Levelt 1993). Lowenstein and Loewenfeld (1962) furthermore observed that pupil diameter is largest in rested individuals, whereas it decreases with fatigue. Similarly, it has been suggested that pupillary re-sponse decreases with age, weakening the correlation between cognitive load and pupil dilation (van Gerven et al. 2003). Another phenomenon to be kept in mind when interpreting pupillometric data is the manifestation of cognitive overload, i.e., when the task exceeds the cognitive resources available to perform it. Although Peavler (1974) suggests that once the capacity threshold has been reached, pupil dilation will stabilize, Poock (1973) and Granholm et al. (1996) found that pupil dilation decreases rapidly once cognitive overload was reached.
#.$ !e technology
Since the initial interest in pupillometry in the 1960s, the technology used to mea-sure pupil dilation has made considerable progress both in terms of accuracy and user-friendliness. In the early days of eye tracking8, subjects had to be “#rmly po-sitioned in an adjustable head-holder” (Bradshaw 1968: 266), or use a “chin rest and bite board” (Schluro" 1982: 137) to maintain the distance between the eye and the tracker. Pupil size was then recorded with an external video camera, and the #lm was either plotted onto graph paper or projected onto a larger surface frame by frame; the pupil diameter was measured manually (see Bradshaw 1968). Today, pupillometry is considered a relatively simple, a"ordable and non-invasive meth-od for assessing autonomic function (Bär et al. 2005), and is applied in psycho-physiology, pharmacology, neurology, and psychiatry. While until recently, only #xed (or head-mounted) eye trackers were deemed suitable for the measurement
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting $*
of pupil dilation, Klingner et al. (2008) convincingly replicated some of the classic cognitive pupillometry results (e.g., Kahneman and Beatty 1966) using a remote eye tracker.9
#.# Using pupillometry to measure cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting
From the preceding discussion one might conclude that pupillometry is ideally suited to measure cognitive load during a complex task like simultaneous inter-preting. It might surprise, then, to see that it has only been applied to the interpret-ing paradigm very rarely. In a groundbreaking experiment, Tommola and Niemi (1986) used pupillometry to study the e"ect of directionality-contingent syntac-tic complexity on mental load, for the #rst time demonstrating the feasibility of the method. Almost a decade later, Hyönä et al. (1995) conducted a more sys-tematic analysis of cognitive load comparing and contrasting the load generated during di"erent (arguably related) language processing tasks (i.e., listening com-prehension, shadowing, and simultaneous interpreting). !e results indicated an increase of mean pupil dilation, and consequently cognitive load, from listening comprehension to shadowing, and simultaneous interpreting. Seeber and Kerzel used the same method to measure online (i.e., real time) cognitive load during simultaneous interpreting and gathered evidence suggesting that German verb-#nal structures generate more cognitive load than German verb-initial structures when interpreted into English (Seeber and Kerzel 2012). !eir data also suggests that simultaneously interpreting sentences without context generates more cogni-tive load than interpreting sentences (ceteris paribus) embedded in context. !ese examples illustrate the great potential of pupillometry as a method and t TEPRs as a measure of cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting.
#.' Potential and limitations of pupillometry in simultaneous interpreting
Like all research methods, pupillometry has its potential and limitations. Its po-tential, largely due to its limited invasiveness and its high temporal resolution, has already been discussed in the previous sections. As for its limitations, they mainly stem from the intrinsic nature of the measures it provides. Mean dilation, peak dilation and mean latency are revealing when applied to short auditory stimuli (e.g., at the phrase and sentence level), but much less so when applied to long stimuli (e.g., at the discourse level). In fact, Schultheis and Jameson (2004) found no di"erence in mean pupil dilation across (340-word long) texts of di"erent (sub-jective) di4culty. !eir conclusion that “pupil size may di"er between easy and di4cult conditions only in certain periods of a task” (2004: 233) is supported by
$" Kilian G. Seeber
Haapalainen et al. (2010), who found that median heart 6ux and median electro-cardiogram are more reliable measures of task di4culty than median pupil di-lation with a trial length of three minutes. !ese #ndings, it seems, are related to the very nature of the measure that re6ects moment-to-moment variations of load and maps several sources of load onto one measure. Averaging changes in pupil dilation over long periods (e.g., of several minutes) might thus cancel out the changes in cognitive load re6ected in them. It is no coincidence that the ex-periments in which this method has been applied successfully (both outside and within the paradigm) were tightly controlled and used isolated stimuli and short periods of interest (e.g., Hyönä et al., Seeber and Kerzel 2012). ! is suggests that, provided the necessary methodological rigor is applied, pupillometry might be a reliable method to measure local cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting.
'. Conclusion
In this article I attempted to brie6y illustrate, by means of a few examples, how di"erent methods have been applied to researching cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting. Although each of the four approaches has its unique advantages and disadvantages, this analysis suggests the use of pupillometry as a way to observe more objectively how much cognitive load is generated during the interpreting task as it unfolds. Having said that, even this measure currently comes with as of yet unresolved challenges. In fact, it would appear that while reliable as a means to assess local cognitive load at or below the sentence level, this method might not be indicated to quantify average cognitive load across long stimuli. What is more, the signal-to-noise ratio10 requires comprehensive data preparation (see Klingner et al. 2008) while the many-to-one mapping still precludes us from attributing measured load to individual component tasks. Much as with other limitations identi#ed in this overview, they are not to suggest that the method is unsuitable or invalid. However, it would appear that we do require more “research into research” and that, “the day when we can spend more time discussing what we found, and less time agonizing over how we found it or whether we went about it the right way” (Shlesinger 2000, 13) has not yet come.
Notes
!. See Seeber (2011) for a more comprehensive discussion on the de#nition of cognitive load and how it relates to simultaneous interpreting.
$. For a more detailed description, see Wickens (1984, 2002) as well as Seeber (2007, 2011).
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting $%
#. !e maximum amount of load generated in a particular period of interest.
'. As pointed out above, analytical approaches are unable to take into account individual dif-ferences: for the sake of the exercise it is thus assumed that the interpreter is unfamiliar with the name of the organizations he is working for or the venues he is working at and has to process the input incrementally without being able to resort to anticipation.
(. For a comprehensive discussion see Pym (2008).
). !e extent to which measurements are in6uenced and falsi#ed by artifacts.
*. !e extent to which a method invades the physical integrity of the body.
". Pupil dilation is usually measured using an eye tracker, i.e. an infrared camera measuring the movement of the eyes.
%. See Klingner (2010) for a detailed description of the methodology including data processing.
!&. !e level of desired signal compared to the level of background noise (or artifacts).
References
Andreassi, John L. 2000. Psychophysiology: Human Behavior and Physiological Response, 4th ed. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Bär, Klaus-Jürgen, Michael K. Boettger, Silke Till, Julia Dolicek, and Heinrich Sauer. 2005. “Lateralization of Pupillary Light Re6ex Parameters.” Clinical Neuropsychology 116: 790– 798.
Barik, Henri C. 1969. A Study of Simultaneous Interpretation. Unpublished PhD dissertation, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Beatty, Jackson. 1982. “Task Evoked Pupillary Responses, Processing Load, and the Structure of Processing Resources.” Psychological Bulletin 91 (2): 276–292.
Bernardini, Silvia. 2001. “!ink-Aloud Protocols in Translation Research: Achievements, Limits, Future Prospects.” Target 13 (2): 214–263.
Bradshaw, John L. 1968. “Load and Pupillary Changes in Continuous Processing Tasks.” British Journal of Psychology 59 (3): 265–271.
Clarke, Robert J., Hongyu Zhang, and Paul D.R. Gamlin. 2003. “Characteristics of the Pupillary Light Re6ex in the Alert Rhesus Monkey.” Journal of Neurophysiology 89: 3179–3189.
De Groot, Annette M.B. 1997. “!e Cognitive Study of Translation and Interpretation. !ree Approaches.” In Cognitive Processes in Translation and Interpreting, ed. by Joseph H. Danks, Gregory M. Shreve, Stephen B. Fountain, and Michael K. McBeath, 25–56. !ousand Oaks, London, New Delhi: Sage Publications.
De Groot, Annette M.B. 2000. “A Complex-skill Approach to Translation and Interpreting.” In Tapping and Mapping the Processes of Translation and Interpreting, ed. by Sonja Tirkkonen-Condit and Riitta Jääskeläinen, 53–68. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ericsson, Anders K., and Herbert A. Simon. 1984. Protocol Analysis: Verbal Reports as Data. Cambridge, MA: Bradford Books/MIT Press.
Gile, Daniel. 1995. Regards sur la recherche en interprétation de conférence. Lille: Presses univer-sitaires de Lille.
#& Kilian G. Seeber
Gile, Daniel. 1997. “Conference Interpreting as a Cognitive Management Problem.” In Cognitive Processes in Translation and Interpreting, ed. by Joseph H. Danks, Stephen B. Fountain, Michael K. McBeath, and Gregory M. Shreve, 196–214. !ousand Oaks, London, New Delhi: Sage Publications.
Gile, Daniel. 1999. “Testing the E"ort Models’ Tightrope Hypothesis in Simultaneous Interpreting — A Contribution.” Hermes 23: 153–172.
Gile, Daniel. 2008. “Local Cognitive Load in Simultaneous Interpreting and its Implications for Empirical Research.” Forum 6 (2): 59–77.
Gile, Daniel. 2011. “Errors, Omissions and Infelicities in Broadcast Interpreting: Preliminary Findings from a Case Study.” In Methods and Strategies of Process Research, ed. by Birgitta Englund Dimitrova, Cecilia Alvstad, Adelina Hild, and Elisabet Tiselius, 201–218. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gopher, Daniel, and Rolf Braune. 1984. “On the Psychophysics of Workload: Why Bother with Subjective Measures?” Human Factors 26: 519–532.
Granholm, Eric, Robert F. Asarnow, Andrew J. Sarkin, and Karen L. Dykes. 1996. “Pupillary Responses Index Cognitive Resource Limitations.” Psychophysiology 33: 457–461.
Haapalainen, Eija, SeungJun Kim, Jodi F. Forlizzi, and Anind K. Dey. 2010. “Psycho-Physiological Measures for Assessing Cognitive Load.” In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing, 301–310. Copenhagen.
Hervais-Adelman, Alexis G., Barbara Moser-Mercer, and Narly Golestani. 2011. “Executive Control of Language in the Bilingual Brain: Integrating the Evidence from Neuroimaging to Neuropsychology.” Frontiers in Psychology 2 (234): 1–8.
Hoeks, Bert, and Willem J.M. Levelt. 1993. “Pupillary Dilation as a Measure of Attention: A Quantitative System Analysis.” Behavior Research Methods, Instruments and Computers 25: 16–26.
Hyönä, Jukka, Jorma Tommola, and Anna-Mari Alaja. 1995. “Pupil Dilation as a Measure of Processing Load in Simultaneous Interpreting and Other Language Tasks.” !e Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 48A (3): 598–612.
Ivanova, Adelina. 2000. “!e Use of Retrospection in Research on Simultaneous Interpreting.” In Tapping and Mapping the Processes of Translation and Interpreting, ed. by Sonja Tirkkonen-Condit and Riitta Jääskeläinen, 27–52. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Kahneman, Daniel. 1973. Attention and E"ort. Englewood Cli"s, NJ: Prentice-Hall. Kahneman, Daniel, and Jackson Beatty. 1966. “Pupil Diameter and Load on Memory.” Science
154: 1583–1585. Kahneman, Daniel, Bernard Tursky, David Shapiro, and Andrew Crider. 1969. “Pupillary,
Heart Rate, and Skin Resistance Changes during a Mental Task.” Journal of Experimental Psychology 79 (1): 164–167.
Klingner, Je". 2010. Measuring Cognitive Load during Visual Tasks by Combining Pupillometry and Eye Tracking. Unpublished PhD dissertation, Stanford University Computer Science Department.
Klingner, Je", Rakshit Kumar, and Pat Hanrahan. 2008. “Measuring the Task-Evoked Pupillary Response with a Remote Eye Tracker.” ETRA 2008: Proceedings of the 2008 Symposium on Eye Tracking Research and Applications, 69–72. Savannah, Georgia: ACM.
Lamberger-Felber, Heike. 2001. “Text-Oriented Research into Interpreting: Examples from a Case-Study.” Hermes 26: 39–64.
Lowenstein, Otto, and Irene E. Loewenfeld. 1962. “!e Pupil.” In !e Eye, Vol. 3, Muscular Mechanisms, ed. by Hugh Davson, 231–267. New York: Academic Press.
Cognitive load in simultaneous interpreting #!
Massaro, Dominic W., and Miriam Shlesinger. 1997. “Information Processing and a Computational Approach to the Study of Simultaneous Interpretation.” Interpreting 1 (1/2): 13–53.
Mazza, Cristina. 2000. Numbers in Simultaneous Interpretation. Unpublished graduation thesis, Universita degli Studi di Bologna, SSLMIT, Forli.
Miller, George A. 1956. “!e Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on our Capacity for Processing Information.” Psychological Review 63: 81–97.
Mital, Anil, and Majorkumar Govindaraju. 1999. “Is It Possible to Have a Single Measure for all Work?” International Journal of Industrial Engineering !eory 6: 190–195.
Mitchell, Don. 2004. “On-line Methods in Language Processing: Introduction and Historical Review.” In !e On-line Study of Sentence Comprehension: Eyetracking, EPRs and Beyond, ed. by Manuel Carreiras and Charles Cli5on Jr., 15–32. Hove: Taylor & Francis.
Moser-Mercer, Barbara. 1997. “Beyond Curiosity. Can Interpreting Research Meet the Challenge?” In Cognitive Processes in Translation and Interpreting, ed. by Joseph H. Danks, Stephen B. Fountain, Michael K. McBeath, and Gregory M. Shreve, 176–195. !ousand Oaks, London, New Delhi: Sage Publications.
Moser-Mercer, Barbara, Ulrich Frauenfelder, Beatriz Casado, and Alexander Künzli. 2000. “Searching to De#ne Expertise in Interpreting.” In Language Processing and Simultaneous Interpreting, ed. by Birgitta Englund Dimitrova and Kenneth Hyltenstam, 107–132. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Oléron, Pierre, and Hubert Nanpon. 1965. “Recherches sur la traduction simultanée.” Journal de psychologie normale et pathologique 62: 73–94.
Paas, Fred G.W.C., and Jeroen J.G. Merrienboer. 1993. “!e E4ciency of Instructional Conditions: An Approach to Combine Mental E"ort and Performance Measures.” Human Factors 35: 737–743.
Paas, Fred G.W.C., Juhani E. Tuovinen, Huib K. Tabbers, and Pascal W.M. van Gerven. 2003. “Cognitive Load Measurement as a Means to Advance Cognitive Load !eory.” Educational Psychologist 38 (1): 63–71.
Peavler, Scott W. 1974. “Pupil Size, Information Overload, and Performance Di"erences.” Psychophysiology 11: 559–566.
Petsche, Hellmuth, Susan C. Etlinger, and Oliver Filz. 1993. “Brain Electrical Mechanisms of Bilingual Speech Management: An Initial Investigation.” Electroencephalography and Clinical Neurophysiology 86: 385–394.
Pöchhacker, Franz. 1994. Simultandolmetschen als komplexes Handeln. Tübingen: Gunter Narr. Poock, Gary K. 1973. “Information Processing vs. Pupil Diameter.” Perceptual and Motor Skills
37: 1000–1002. Price, Cathy J., David W. Green, and Roswitha Von Studnitz. 1999. “A Functional Imaging Study
of Translation and Language Switching.” Brain 122 (12): 2221–2235. Pym, Anthony D. 2008. “On Omission in Simultaneous Interpreting: Risk Analysis of a Hidden
E"ort.” In E"orts and Models in Interpreting and Translation Research: A Tribute to Daniel Gile, ed. by Gyde Hansen, Andrew Chesterman, and Heidrun Gerzymisch-Arbogast, 83– 105. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Rinne, Juha O., Jorma Tommola, Matti Laine, Bernd J. Krause, Daniela Schmidt, Valtteri Kaasinen, Mika Teräs, Hannu Sipilä, and Marianna Sunnari. 2000. “!e Translating Brain: Cerebral Activation Patterns During Simultaneous Interpreting.” Neuroscience Letters 294: 85–88.
Shlesinger, Miriam. 2000. “Interpreting as a Cognitive Process: How can we know what hap-pens?” In Tapping and Mapping the Processes of Translation and Interpreting, ed. by Sonja Tirkkonen-Condit and Riitta Jääskeläinen, 3–15. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
#$ Kilian G. Seeber
Schluro", Michael. 1982. “Pupil Responses to Grammatical Complexity of Sentences.” Brain and Language 17: 133–145.
Schultheis, Holger, and Anthony Jameson. 2004. “Assessing Cognitive Load in Adaptive Hypermedia Systems: Physiological and Behavioral Methods.” In Adaptive Hypermedia and Adaptive Web-Based Systems: Proceedings of AH 2004, ed. by Wolfgang Nejdl and Paul De Bra, 225–234. Berlin: Springer.
Seeber, Kilian G. 2007. “!inking outside the Cube: Modeling Language Processing Tasks in a Multiple Resource Paradigm.” Interspeech 2007, Antwerp, Belgium. 1382–1385.
Seeber, Kilian G. 2011. “Cognitive Load in Simultaneous Interpreting: Existing !eories — New Models.” Interpreting 13 (2): 176–204.
Seeber, Kilian G., and Dirk Kerzel. 2012. “Cognitive Load in Simultaneous Interpreting: Model Meets Data.” International Journal of Bilingualism 16 (2): 228–242.
Setton, Robin. 2001. “Translation Studies and Cognitive Science: Do we Need each other?” CTIS Occasional Papers 1: 113–126.
Setton, Robin. 2003. “Models of the Interpreting Process.” In Avances en la investigación sobre la interpretación, ed. by Angela Collados Aís and José Antonio Sabio Panilla, 29–91. Granada: Editorial Comares.
Stelmack, Robert M., and Nathan Mandelzys. 1975. “Extraversion and Pupillary Response to A"ective and Taboo Words.” Psychophysiology 12: 536–540.
Tauchmanová, Jana. 2011. Daniel Gile´s E"ort Model in Simultaneous Interpreting. Unpublished MA thesis, Institute of Translation Studies, Charles University, Prague.
Tommola, Jorma, and Pekka Niemi. 1986. “Mental Load in Simultaneous Interpreting: An On-line Pilot Study.” In Nordic Research in Text Linguistics and Discourse Analysis, ed. by Lars S. Evensen, 171–184. Trondheim: Tapir.
Van Gerven, Pascal W.M., Fred Paas, Jeroen J.G. van Merrienboer, and Henk Schmidt. 2003. “Memory Load and the Cognitive Pupillary Response in Aging.” Psychophysiology 41: 167– 174.
Wickens, Christopher D. 1984. “Processing Resources in Attention.” In Varieties of Attention, ed. by Raja Parasuraman and David R. Davies, 63–102. New York: Academic Press.
Wickens, Christopher D. 2002. “Multiple Resources and Performance Prediction.” !eoretical Issues in Ergonomics Science 3 (2): 159–177.
Woodworth, Robert S. 1899. “!e Accuracy of Voluntary Movement.” Psychological Review 3 (Suppl. 13): 1–119.
Yin, Bo, Fang Chen, Natalie Ruiz, and Eliathamby Ambikairajah. 2008. “Speech-Based Cognitive Load Monitoring System.” Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, 2041–2044. Las Vegas, Nevada.
Author’s address Kilian G. Seeber University of Geneva 40 bd du Pont D’Arve CH-1205 GENEVA Switzerland
Kilian.Seeber@unige.ch